# Overview

==Generally speaking, developers won't need to known about or understand dimensions for regular use, but they can be useful to know about.==

Dimension codes represent the fundamental physical dimensions of a quantity without specifying actual units. Single-letter codes represent base units, which can be combined together with optional exponents to represent various quantity types. Every quantity type has a unique dimension. For example:

- `L` - length
- `M` - mass
- `T` - time
- `MLT-2` - force (mass × length × time⁻²)

The standard dimension codes, as defined by the [International System of Quantities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_System_of_Quantities) (ISQ), are as follows:

| Code | Name                | SI Base Unit |
| ---- | ------------------- | ------------ |
| `L`  | length              | *m*          |
| `M`  | mass                | *kg*         |
| `T`  | time                | *s*          |
| `I`  | electric current    | *A*          |
| `Θ`  | temperature         | *K*          |
| `N`  | amount of substance | *mol*        |
| `J`  | luminous intensity  | *cd*         |

A code of `1` indicates a dimensionless quantity, for example a concentration expressed in parts per million (*ppm*) or an interest rate expressed as a percentage (*%*).

The Quantities package tweaks and expands this system as follows:

1. The code `H` is used for temperature instead of `Θ` (theta), for ease of typing on a standard keyboard. `H` was chosen because it suggests the word "heat", and also because capital theta has a little 'H' inside it.
2. The code `A` has been added for Angle quantities. In SI and ISQ, an angle is viewed as dimensionless because an angle in radians is equal to the ratio of arc length to radius (i.e. L/L = 1). However, for the purpose of this package it was useful to have a dedicated dimension for angles.
3. The code `D` has been added to support data quantities.
4. The code `C` has been added to support currency quantities (note, however, that "currency" refers to the *unit* type, and "money" refers to the *quantity* type).
5. Rather than a code of `1` to indicate a dimensionless quantity, the package uses an empty string. This is because PHP coerces numeric strings to numbers in certain contexts, which interferes with type safety and static analysis.

The base units within the package have been similarly expanded.

1. Radians (*rad*) are an SI derived unit. Here, they are used as an SI base unit for angles.
2. Bytes (*B*) are used as the common base unit for data quantities. Although technically the bit (*b*) is more fundamental, bytes are much more common in practice.
3. Troy ounces of gold (*XAU*) are used as the common base currency, being the most commonly traded international currency.

Furthermore, every dimension is also assigned a base English unit. The concept of "English" units here encompasses both imperial and US customary units, which have many units in common.

The resulting dimension codes and base units used within the package are thus:

| Code | Name                | Common base unit | SI base unit | English base unit |
| ---- | ------------------- | ---------------- | ------------ | ----------------- |
| L    | length              |                  | *m*          | *ft*              |
| M    | mass                |                  | *kg*         | *lb*              |
| T    | time                |                  | *s*          |                   |
| I    | electric current    |                  | *A*          |                   |
| H    | temperature         |                  | *K*          | *°R*              |
| N    | amount of substance |                  | *mol*        |                   |
| J    | luminous intensity  |                  | *cd*         |                   |
| A    | angle               |                  | *rad*        | *°*               |
| D    | data                | *B*              |              |                   |
| C    | currency            | *XAU*            |              |                   |

Whenever a Quantity is converted to base units, the resulting derived unit will be a combination of units from the respective set.

If no English unit is defined for a dimension, the algorithm will fall back to the SI base unit.
If no SI base unit is defined for a dimension, it will fall back to the common base unit.

## See also

**[DimensionService](../Reference/Services/DimensionService.md)** - Provides methods for validating, decomposing, composing, and transforming dimension codes.
