## Built-in Quantity Types

The package includes built-in support for all quantity types in common usage or that have dedicated units:

| Name                | Dimension | Class               |
| ------------------- | --------- | ------------------- |
| dimensionless       | 1         | `Dimensionless`     |
| length              | L         | `Length`            |
| mass                | M         | `Mass`              |
| time                | T         | `Time`              |
| electric current    | I         | `ElectricCurrent`   |
| temperature         | H         | `Temperature`       |
| amount of substance | N         | `AmountOfSubstance` |
| luminous intensity  | J         | `LuminousIntensity` |
| angle               | A         | `Angle`             |
| area                | L2        | `Area`              |
| volume              | L3        | `Volume`            |
| velocity            | T-1L      | `Velocity`          |
| frequency           | T-1       | `Frequency`         |
| force               | T-2LM     | `Force`             |
| energy              | T-2L2M    | `Energy`            |
| power               | T-3L2M    | `Power`             |
| *...and more*       |           |                     |

@CLAUDE_TODO Complete the above table as follows:
1. Include all built-in quantity types (see the QUANTITY_TYPES constant).
2. Don't use superscripts in dimension codes.
3. In the Class column, make each a link to the relevant page in the Reference.


There are many other quantity types for which no dedicated subclass is provided, as doing so would unnecessarily bloat the package. Only two Quantity subclasses (Acceleration and Density) are included that add no functionality, as they have no dedicated units or conversions, but they are quite common. These can be used as examples of how to add your own custom quantity types. (See: Adding New Quantity Types).

@CLAUDE_TODO List a few examples here of quantity types that are not supported out of the box by the package, and link to the page on Wikipedia which lists a whole bunch of them (I think it's SI derived units).



## Creating new Quantities

There are two ways to create a new Quantity object:

### `new QuantityType()`

Use `new` to create a new object of the desired quantity type, e.g. `new Angle(45, 'deg')`, `new Density(1200, 'kg/m3')`, etc.

The unit is analysed to discover the dimension and quantity type. If the class doesn't match the unit, an exception will be thrown.

For example, `$x = new Time(100, 'm')` will throw an example because 'm' (meters) is not a time unit.

This method for creating new quantities isn't technically required, since `Quantity::create()` is designed to handle all cases, but it does create more readable code.

You can also call `new Quantity()`, but this is generally not advised because it will throw an exception if a subclass exists for the relevant quantity type.

### `Quantity::create()`

This will analyse the provided unit to find the dimension code and quantity type, and create an object of the correct type. If no class exists that matches the unit, a base Quantity object will be created.

## See also

How to add new quantity types - link to page in the Developer Guide
QuantityTypeService - link to page in the reference.

